Jennifer Egan, congratulations on your new book.
Tell me, it's kind of a gutsy thing to...
and a new collection of stories to have the first story narrated by a man.
I mean, did you feel at all intimidated by this?
Obviously, you know, doing these different voices doesn't seem to... I didn't feel intimidated in writing it because I assumed that I would do it very badly and no one would believe me.
And I just sort of gave myself the freedom to think, I'll never show this to anyone or publish it.
It'll just be for fun.
And I have found, actually, that that is the best precursor to success.
I mean, when you give yourself that freedom, it's amazing, you know, what can happen.
And so I just sort of let myself go, and I wrote the story, and I had so much fun doing it.
It turned out that it really, I felt as I was working on it, that it was really working.
Although I didn't, obviously until I ran this voice past other people, I had no sense of whether anyone would believe it was a man.
But ultimately, I mean, my feeling really is, and this may just be that it's the last story that I wrote, I feel that it's the best.
Was it the last?
It was the last one that I wrote, yeah.
And then you led the collection with it.
Exactly.
Because I felt, I mean, in a way, you know, there's so many theories as to how to organize a collection.
I just feel like throw your best effort down there so people can say...
you know, this is or is not something that interests me.
Some people don't agree that it's the best.
I agree wholeheartedly.
And I'm sorry, they don't agree what?
Some people don't like that the best because there is, I mean, there are a lot of stories in there that are much more emotional.
I'd say that there is, I mean, there are a lot of ways to divide it, but certainly there are the stories that are about sort of young adolescent girls and tend to be much more emotional.
Emotional, and I think in some ways more from the heart, although I think why China is very much from the heart, too.
And some people prefer those, but I just feel that technically and just in terms of ambition... Ambition for yourself.
Yeah, that why China is the strongest.
So my feeling was, you know, absolutely I have to open with that.
And it is a little nerve-wracking because you just wonder, you know, some people I think...
will find it difficult to start a story in the first person, you know, by an author that they obviously can see as female from her byline.
Well, I mean, you have to, and you do throw very early on, you know, beardless.
I mean, because until the word beardless is used...
We're thinking it's a woman.
It could be, you know, the gender.
Well, I mean, the assumption, of course, is that it's a woman.
They say, well, I have beardless.
This is a guy talking here.
I know.
I read the story at Barnes & Noble here in New York the other night, and I was very curious to see how that would go because I thought it's one thing to ask for that suspension of disbelief when people can't.
see you that's like a guy singing the man I love I know but you know what people seem to really like it I mean they seemed quite wrapped I didn't feel that I mean the story is sort of funny and toward the end you definitely get some laughs but I didn't think they were it didn't seem that they were laughing because I was the one reading it
Well, then congratulations to you because, you know, that's the thing, to get the reader or the audience to just, you know, get past the reader, I guess, and into the story.
Yeah, I think so too.
When you said ambition, is that another way of saying challenge?
Was it a challenge for you or did you feel?
I did feel that it was a challenge.
I mean, one thing about that story that I liked as I was working on it and still like is that I'm really not sure exactly what it's about, in quotes.
I just, it has a slightly mysterious element to me even now.
And I think that I used to, I used to feel that it was just important to set your goals very high and achieve them in terms of not only having an emotional arc to the story, but really, you know...
some thematic content that seemed to warrant all of this time and effort, really and truly something to say.
But now I've come to feel more that you want to feel that, yes, but you don't want it to be something that you can reduce to a theory or an opinion or something like that.
And so I find that...
having a certain opaqueness in the end, even to myself.
Opaqueness or opacity?
Opacity.
I want to check it out myself.
I like that.
I mean, I feel that it shouldn't be easy to exhaust a story.
And for me also, that one came very easily, which I think is always nice because it just means that you don't have to work it and labor it so hard.
to make it work.
And I think it sometimes can retain a little bit of resilience and freshness that sometimes stories that you work the hardest on and even care the most about just don't have in the end because they have been worked too much.
I love the analogy of pie dough.
You know, when you roll out pie dough, you cannot do it too many times, or it just loses something.
You really have to sort of get it right, throw it in the pan, and go for it.
And if you have to keep re-rolling it and starting over and all that, it's just not as good.
So I think that's another reason I feel very fondly toward white china, because in a funny way, it was one that came easily and was fun.
And I think part of the reason that it was is that it's about someone who's not like me at all, you know, starting with his gender and moving on from there.
And that was just very freeing and thrilling.
I think I want to move in that direction.
Did you see...
When you were writing the stories, I mean, were these written because they've been published, many of them, I guess, or all of them in magazines?
Were you doing individual stories or were you working?
Was there an idea that this would be a cohesive collection?
And in your mind, did you have a theme that you thought was connecting them?
I think that I did not.
I was not thinking of it as a cohesive collection.
I was...
I was really, for some of those stories, I was really just trying to learn how to write.
I had been working on my novel for a long time, and it was a very arduous and sort of frustrating process.
And basically what happened was after college I went to England for a couple of years.
I had a scholarship, and I wrote this incredibly long and really...
dismal draft of my novel, which was virtually unreadable.
Well, was it this novel, The Invisible Circus?
It was The Invisible Circus, but it was called Inland Souls, and it was just a monster.
I mean, it was terrible.
It's actually sort of funny, but not intentionally.
And so I came back with this thing thinking, well, now I'll sell this and, you know, I'll be a fabulous star.
And it was, you know, that was the middle of the 80s when there really were these sort of young literary stars.
It was McInerney and Bredesen Ellis and all these people.
And I thought, well, I'm going to join their ranks.
And, you know, of course it didn't work out that way at all.
I mean, the friends I gave it to started to avoid my phone calls.
And the agents I sent it to, you know, whipped it right back to me so fast it seemed I had barely put it in the mailbox and I was taking it back out.
And so at that point I realized that something was terribly wrong.
I mean, I didn't know what I was doing.
And so I began writing stories as a way to just work on a smaller scale and try to understand how to make people feel things and react to what I was writing.
I mean, I had lost that connection to my reader totally.
Did you publish stories prior to publishing the novel?
Yes.
In the end, because I wrote a lot of these stories while I was working on the novel, they were ready to be published much before it was.
And most of them, except for Why China, they all were published before the novel came out.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
So you really did do your apprenticeship with the stories?
Very much so.
And I should have checked...
My fault.
I should have checked the copyright page to see when these appear.
Oh, don't worry.
Well, they really encompass a lot of years, which is something that, I mean, in some ways it concerns me because I think, you know, there seems to be this sense that collections should be seamless and sort of of a moment in some way.
This is really not.
I mean, this is sort of the best of what I wrote.
I publish stories that aren't in there.
I took out the ones that I didn't think could really hold up.
But this is really sort of a compilation of various things that I was doing and thinking about over the course of really eight or nine years.
I did completely overhaul all of them before the book was published because some of them... I mean, there are stories in there that I feel...
strongly about and really like like for example one piece um which is about the the girl and her brother the brother who has been responsible for the mother's death and um this this girl feels that she can somehow save him from that guilt and she goes she takes sort of drastic action and i really feel that the story is very heartfelt in a way that almost might be hard for me to do now but it's very primitive in terms of the writing i mean it's just there's not a lot of um
There's not a lot of style yet to the prose.
But, you know, from my point of view, that's okay.
I mean, I feel like there's a real range.
Then you have White China, which is, you know, I think is much more on top of my game by the time I wrote that.
However, I will say that I do think a common set of interests informs a lot of the stories and my novel because, you know,
by virtue of the fact that to some degree I was working through, you know, questions of technique and all of that, using the stories in order to bring all of that back to the novel.
And I think that what, I mean, just to sort of, you know, hopefully not reduce the whole thing to a giant cliché, I think that what that set of concerns involves is, you know...
on some level, the search for transcendence, the desire to be lifted above everyday life, and what sorts of lengths that urge can drive people to.
Do you think you're speaking for your generation at all?
I mean, are you expressing... I think perhaps I am to some degree.
I mean, that's such a... I mean, like Ann Beatty, of course.
I mean, well, I know, but Ann Beatty has been always... It's almost an accusation now, and she detests it, you know, that...
Well, to a degree, you know, that she writes for her generation and she's the voice of blah, blah, blah.
But I'm wondering, you know, because of many of the concerns that you do write about seem to be endemic to young people, people of your age.
Well, I think that, I mean, you know, it's funny because what is a generation?
I think that I'm in a very funny generation because I'm the first generation in
After the baby boomers.
Not to have experienced the 60s firsthand, but not to have been part of the kind of technological boom that leads you to have grown up with computers and all that.
I fall right in between, which is sort of interesting.
It's amazing, isn't it?
And she's teaching me how to work.
Oh, yeah.
It's like they're born with this ability.
It's a totally different, yeah.
And so I feel, it's funny because I feel sort of in some ways, you know, that my generation is almost an anomaly.
I mean, how can I call that a generation?
It's a matter of a few years because my brother, who's...
six and a half years younger, falls soundly into the kind of 20-something.
I mean, he's in cyberspace.
He works in computers.
He does 3D animation.
And I feel... Does he read books?
He does.
It took him a while to get there.
Oddly enough, he seems to read more the more he gets involved in this...
in this kind of hijinx computer stuff.
Yeah, but you think he'll, now this is from, this is from my own, my next book.
I'm just curious because I do hope to go into the next century and just see where it's going.
Do you think he'll read?
He'll happily go to books and computers?
Or do you think he'll still want a printed book?
Well, he seems to buy books and read them, you know?
I mean, I have to say, I am very skeptical about this books on computer thing.
I mean, no one likes to look at a screen.
There's something about a book that has to do with its objecthood.
And I think...
You know, people have been very quick to say that that's all going to end, really, ever since movies began.
Yeah, that's true.
Television, really.
When everybody got a television, nobody was going to read anymore.
Exactly.
Well, it just, you know, it seems like the little dogged, low-tech book, it seems to have something to offer that nothing else can.
And I think what that is, to some degree, is an experience that takes place over a long period of time.
which is not the case with movies, not the case with television, and not the case with the whole sensibility of being on a computer, which is much more instantaneous and momentary.
Well, can you take a computer to bed with you?
Exactly.
I don't even write on it.
You don't write on a computer?
I use it as a typing machine, but I do not write on one, no.
Pencil?
Pen.
Terrible, scrabbly writing that sometimes I can't even read, but often I substitute, I think, better things than what I had written in the first place when I can't read it.
When you turn in manuscripts, they're typed, of course.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Because the thing is, I do multiple drafts, so the advent of the computer helped me a lot.
I mean, I got my first computer in, I think, my senior year of college.
And, you know, I would have to, up until then, I was retyping several times 40-page papers.
Oh, I know what that is.
I mean, how did I do it?
And I'm kind of a perfectionist.
I hate blemishes on a page.
Oh, I can't stand it.
It has to be really a perfect page.
I know.
And you'd be all the way down towards the bottom and you'd throw the damn thing away.
And now with the computer, of course, it's wonderful.
You just fix that little thing.
I know.
It's great.
It's nice.
I'm sorry to have gotten off track on the question there, but we were talking about... The generation.
Yeah.
So the answer is I think that my generation is a little bit of a funny wedge between the sort of 60s people and the cyber kids.
However, I do feel that in terms of my interest in sort of the longing for transcendence and the form that that takes in image culture, which if I had to –
boil down, you know, to its bare essentials, the big question on my mind maybe for the last eight or nine years, I do think that as so many of the sort of the religious and community structures have broken down, that this sort of
this longing that I think is, to an extent, just innate and human, has fewer places to go and takes sort of stranger forms.
And I do think that that... I see that all around me, even in the cyber kids.
And so in that way, I think that I'm interested in something that a lot of people seem to feel, although they might express it in different ways.
So, you know, it's...
I guess to some degree I have found that people seem to be very responsive.
I mean, for example, another story that people have really responded to more than I expected was Sisters of the Moon, which is the last one in there, about young kids, you know, basically young kids in the 70s taking drugs and hanging around with derelict Vietnam vets.
And what I was really interested in, I mean, that story is actually quite autobiographical, not in terms of the actual plot, but the scene, the setting, you know, was something I really did experience quite young.
What interested me about that was just sort of capturing that moment.
I mean, there was just something particular about that time, and it's the sense of what had just passed and the sense of what might lie ahead.
And a lot of people seem to just completely respond to that, and even people much younger than myself.
So I think it was, I mean, in that, there was something generational going on there that I think I wasn't even fully aware of as I wrote it.
There is a sense of dislocation, of course, in a lot of the stories, and maybe you could address yourself to that.
Dislocation in the sense of sort of where am I and how am I?
Yeah, really.
I mean, Americans are broad, and you have these characters who do seem to be,
apart, you know, from their environment?
Well, I think one reason those sorts of scenarios come naturally to me has to do with my own background, which has been full of dislocation.
You are a rather itinerant person, I could say.
Yeah, and also, I mean, before I even had a choice, I mean, my mother and father divorced before I can remember.
You know, we moved from the Midwest, where my whole family is from, to San Francisco, of all places, you know, in 1969.
And then my mother and my stepfather ended up getting divorced.
So I don't have any full siblings, and my background is quite disjointed and fractured.
And as soon as I could get out of the house, I mean, at 18, I was at that door like a shot and determined to see the world.
I mean, that was all I could think about.
You left San Francisco?
Yeah, I left San Francisco, and I...
I did various things to earn money, and then I got a backpack and wandered through Europe.
In fact, my itinerary became Phoebe's itinerary in my novel.
But there's certainly a biographical reason for some of that dislocation.
However, one thing that interests me about it...
About setting people.
I'm just ignoring my call waiting.
I'm sure people think my phone... I was scared.
I thought, well, all of a sudden we lost the connection.
I'm just going to ignore it.
It's been ringing.
It's actually gone quite a few times.
Do you want to grab it?
Hold on just one second.
It might be the same person.
Okay.
Were they there or gone?
They're gone.
I told them to go away.
It could be Allison, but I doubt it.
No, she knows better than that.
She knows I wouldn't be picking up.
However, the thing that interests me about people abroad or people temporarily knocked outside the structures of their so-called normal lives is that
that creates the possibility for strange things to happen.
I find it a highly dramatic situation because, you know, people in the course of normal life are often almost unaware of the various possibilities that exist around them because we're very much creatures of habit.
And yet I think there's a part of us that absolutely rebels against those habits and wants badly to be freed from them.
And that gets back to the question of longing, longing for other lives.
I mean, we have these crazy imaginations that have nothing to do with life.
And what I find so interesting is putting people in situations in which they're outside their normal lives and therefore much more...
however you want to put it, at the mercy of or beguiled by their imaginations and seeing what happens.
Where do their imaginations take them and what are the concrete results in terms of their lives?
I'm interested in those moments when people suddenly decide to lie, for example.
Or to pretend to be someone else, to literally try to be someone else.
And then I'm also interested in the funny way that normal, you know, again, so-called normal life has of reclaiming us finally.
That, you know, for all of the sense of infinite possibility one can sometimes feel, it's amazing how...
how quickly that, you know, you sort of wake up the next morning and you're still you and you still have your life.
So all of those things interest me a lot, and I've found dramatically that one of the more fruitful ways to explore them for me has been to set people in foreign locales, in addition to the sheer pleasure of writing about foreign places, which I love.
What is this interest in fashion models and photographers?
Is this just kind of a metaphor for you, or is this, again, something that you know or...
One of the various things I did right after I got out of high school, before I went to college, was model for a period not that long.
It came about through desperation because I was determined to be an archaeologist at that point.
Which I want to talk about when you finish this book.
Okay.
About archaeology?
Yeah.
Just because when I was a kid, somebody asked me, what did you want to be most when you were a kid?
I would say an archaeologist.
It's so funny.
It's not something that most kids think about.
Oh, I love it.
Me too.
I still wonder if I should have been an archaeologist.
I even consider writing in many ways almost an unlayering.
I agree.
That's what's so interesting.
And getting to the core, you know, and then it's there.
Absolutely, and it's so much the same thing because you're using, you're sort of moving inductively from the little artifacts of people's lives into the big picture.
In fact, my book, to just jump big, is just a shameless, I mean, I modeled it on God's Graves and Scholars, you know, the Saram book, C.W.
Saram book.
Oh, really?
From the 50s, which brought a vertu for arcane subject, which was the passion for archaeology.
Right.
You know, it went through about 50 printings, you know.
It was a worldwide sensation.
And I loved it because he wrote about this human passion, this passion for the past.
And talk about a discipline that has its kind of wacky amateurs.
Exactly.
I can see how there's a real parallel there.
Well, you know, I have a chapter in my book called Obsessed Amateurs, you know.
Exactly.
So really, that was the model for my book.
So when I saw that you, I did see that you had a,
an interest in archaeology.
I said, well, that doesn't sound crazy to me.
I love that.
Well, it's funny because, of course, I was slightly overestimating the skills I had to offer at the age of, you know, 17 and a half.
Yeah, but you wanted to dig, though, of some sort, I gather.
Well, I finally had to.
I had this idea that if I wrote to archaeologists around the country asking, you know, offering my services, they would fly me to places like Egypt and Greece, and I would get to dig for money.
So it was actually really sort of absurd.
I mean, I wrote these letters, and I think only one even answered, and they said, you know, you've got to be nuts.
I mean, graduate students pay us to go on these pigs, and there's no way.
So I was horrified because I had really no other plan for this year off, and although I knew I wanted to travel, I had a very low-paying, you know, job in an ice cream store, and it was going to take me all year just to save up the money.
So I thought, oh, my God.
So I turned to modeling because I knew that I could make money quick doing that.
And it wasn't quite as quick as I had hoped because, like everything else, you have to sort of build your way up.
But finally, I actually went to Japan as a model, which was so hilarious because all I wanted to do was go to Europe.
And it was sort of like the means ended up overshooting the ends so extremely.
By the time I got to Europe, it seemed so familiar after Tokyo, where I had gone just as a way of trying to earn money.
So it was pretty hilarious.
But I did finally, you know, drop the modeling.
Still, with time left before college, you know, bought my backpack and went through Europe.
And so that is partly why I have turned to that subject matter a couple of times.
But I think, too, that the reason, even more than the fact that it happened to me, because there are certainly plenty of things I've done that have not found their way into my writing, is that because I am fascinated by image culture and the peculiar power that it has over people, the ways in which fashion pictures or really all sorts of media imagery works,
do more than just, you know, offer up what seems to be, you know, a more attractive world, but really sort of pull on our emotions and our spirits in some way.
That world seems very rich to me as a world to explore fictionally, although I've done it successfully very few times.
I mean, I think Emerald City, the title story, is not one of the strongest in the collection at all.
So why is it the title story?
Because I like the title.
Hmm.
I think it's the right title for the book.
Looking back, I think maybe I should have retitled the story so that the story would not have been the title story.
But I wasn't sure what to do.
I like the title and I think it's right for the book.
But the title story I don't think is the best.
I think The Stylist is a better story, the other one about models.
And that was actually the first story I published, so that also means a lot to me.
So, you know, so there are a number of reasons I've drawn to that world.
But, you know, it's...
I don't think there's anything innately interesting about it.
No, I think you gave me a very effective answer.
The image stuff is really what I was kind of hoping you'd say, actually.
So that's good.
Yeah, I'm really... That's very interesting to me, and I don't feel that I've exhausted it either.
Now, do you consider yourself a storyteller?
And have you always had this knack for telling stories?
I think that I...
Or are they stories in your mind?
Oh, well, they are stories.
It's funny.
I see myself more as a storyteller.
I want to find a better word than consumer.
I love stories.
I think when I write stories, I'm telling myself the stories.
I'm not someone who leaps up at a party and wants to tell a long yarn and have everyone listen to me.
I find that I get very self-conscious in those circumstances.
But finally, I think narratives involving people, for reasons I don't even fully understand, seem to...
compel me and linger in my memory more than anything else.
I will meet someone at a party and remember that I met them five years ago and that their sister has cerebral palsy, but I can't remember who fought in the Crimean War, even though I wrote papers on it and studied it in great detail.
I hate that about myself.
I feel like something's wrong.
I mean, my head is full of really not useful information involving people, but obviously that's what really interests me.
And so I'm someone who, I look for stories, I respond to stories, and in the course of all that, I write them.
And how about people?
I mean, in terms of characters, are you constantly...
filing things away.
No, I tend to, at least consciously, I don't really work from my own life at all.
Of course, there's a certain fallacy in that.
I mean, obviously, I'm working from my own life all the time, but I almost need to kid myself into thinking that these stories have nothing to do with me, which I think, again, gets at the sense that I feel as if I'm entertaining myself to some degree when I write these things.
I need to feel that I don't know what's going to happen and that it's almost as if I'm reading it.
You mean as you're writing it?
Exactly.
If I think, oh, I met this guy on the subway, and he was so funny, and maybe I'll write a story about him.
Oh, I couldn't do it.
So it's almost like, sometimes I think it's almost like trying to sort of trick a kid into doing something that they might not do or want to do if they knew exactly what they were doing.
I think that kid is sometimes me.
Yeah.
And I have to feel a sense of, a childlike sense of being beguiled and led on a secret, exciting journey.
And it's that feeling that makes me write.
And also something more serious, and I don't want to make it sound like I'm just sort of sitting here with a weird grin on my face all the time.
I think there's...
I mean, again, this is strange to me that I could believe this, but as I'm writing, I tend to feel the sense that it's tremendously important that I write this, that something will change as a result of writing it.
And writing has always had that, I've always had that feeling when I wrote, even writing, you know, arcane papers in college for grad courses on, you know,
folkloric, you know, folkloric analyses of the last 20 years, there was always a sense of urgency for me in tackling any sort of problem through writing.
And I find that to be the case, you know, working on fiction as well, perhaps even more so than nonfiction.
And
And so that's another feeling that pulls me through it as I'm doing it.
It's the sense that it's important and urgent.
Looking back, you know, has one word that I've written changed anything in the world?
I don't think so.
But I feel that it will, and I don't question the feeling.
I'm just, I'm sorry, I'm looking at your tour here, your reading tour, and I see you're going out to Madison, Wisconsin.
I occasionally sell to that.
Maybe I'll try.
Actually, you've already done...
What's that, oh, that's Madison, Connecticut?
Is that right?
Yeah, but I am going to Madison, Wisconsin.
Yeah, okay.
Which I've never been to.
Nor have I, but... But that's a real university town.
Yeah, it is, and they've taken some of my stories, but Milwaukee I sell more to, so I've had to...
Even though they take like one a month, they pay more for one story than Madison does for like 20 or 10, you know.
I liked Milwaukee.
I went there last time and I really, if they add more cities, I want to go back to Milwaukee because I really liked it.
Well, I'm going to, I'll give Lois a call out there then.
Maybe I can pitch this story to her.
Well, actually do because I just got a really nice note from her in response to a story I had written for the New York Times.
Yeah.
I'll call her right now, then.
She interviewed me when I was in Milwaukee, and I liked her so much.
For this book or for the previous book?
For the previous book.
Yeah.
Well, if she used it, then it's... I'll try.
But generally speaking, they don't...
That's hard, you know, to follow up with a feature on the next book, but I'll try it anyway.
Well, see what you can do, because this note was so nice, and she said, oh, please let me know if you're coming back, and, you know.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Well, I'll give her a call.
And I'm not coming back, so this is a perfect moment for you to step in.
Yeah, I really, I just did a piece on Stephen Ambrose, where I did it for PW, and then I modified it for newspapers, and, uh,
And she grabbed that.
She is great.
I really like her.
I love her.
I mean, I'm getting a lot of work from her.
Yeah.
In fact, I kind of... But any time I sell her a story, I can't offer it to Madison.
You know, that's the thing.
Oh, okay.
But that's my problem, you know.
Right.
And she doesn't even want me to offer it down in Chicago, either.
Oh.
Well, that's my original hometown, so...
That's actually pretty good.
Okay, that's right.
You said briefly schooling.
Just tell me about your schooling again.
A couple of fast biographical things here.
Okay, went to public high school in San Francisco.
Okay, and if you don't mind, he's telling me your age.
Not at all, 33.
Okay, that's very young.
It's funny.
It feels old to me, but I think you're always the oldest you've ever been, so there's always a sense of amazement that you could be this old.
Well, I mean, coming out with a novel and a story collection.
Well, of course, I think to me it seems old because I had these notions of being one of these 20-something Brat Packers, although looking back, I'm so happy I wasn't.
I think it would be terrible now, you know?
well i certainly classified them all and it wasn't positively no i think i think i didn't have a high opinion of the whole lot of them i don't think any of them really benefited from that association some of them have certainly survived one of them is michael chabon chabon i guess he's he's come through it pretty well he's not he's also he's my age he's not really one of them i mean he emerged a little later
I just met him last week, and I liked him a lot.
Yeah, oh, he is a sweetheart.
Yeah, very, very, very nice young man, actually.
Extremely nice, very funny, and, you know, not arrogant.
He's a wonderful guy.
Oh, nice.
But anyway, so, yeah, so public high school in San Francisco, then went to University of Pennsylvania.
Mm-hmm.
That's good.
See, I occasionally, I got two papers in Pennsylvania that will take things.
Oh, great.
If I can get some kind of a Pennsylvania wrangle in it, you know.
And I'm also going to Philly for a couple of days in March.
Are they doing you?
Not to my knowledge, no.
I don't think anything is set up.
Let me give Diane, what's her name?
Ann Coulson is the preacher's editor down there.
That would be wonderful.
But if they send Carl and Romano, whatever.
They have their own people, too.
Right.
I'm sure nothing's set up yet because it's so early.
It seems like she does a little closer to the time.
But sometimes I can, if I know that you're going down there and they haven't assigned that they could take it to.
Okay, go ahead.
I'm sorry.
You've got that whole schedule, including Philly, right?
Let's see.
Does it say Philly?
March 20th.
Yes, the last one.
Okay.
Yep, go ahead.
So, University of Pennsylvania, graduated in 85.
I won a Turan scholarship to study in England for two years, which I did at St.
John's College, Cambridge.
Nice.
Isn't Cambridge beautiful?
I just, every time, I can't even believe I lived in such a beautiful place.
It really is.
I've got Cambridge in my book.
I went up and did the Peeps Library over at Marlon College.
It is just, I mean, you know, riding around on a bicycle on these little medieval streets.
I mean, it couldn't have been more fun.
Because my scholarship was so generous, I was able to do a lot of traveling.
That's when I went to China.
I went to the Soviet Union, the then Soviet Union, including really unusual places like Tashkent and Samarkand and Kukara.
those Central Asian provinces, which I think are pretty hard to go to now.
So I'm so glad I did that, as well as, you know, all over Europe.
So that was really, I was able to satisfy a lot of wanderlust in those two years.
I would say so.
And really, I have barely moved since, because once I came back here, I really had to sort of face the music, and I've had no money, really, ever since.
It is kind of interesting, though, that instead of going west, young woman, I mean, you've...
You've chosen the Northeast to live in.
Well, I know.
I think part of it is that even though I did grow up in California, my roots are so much kind of industrial Midwestern.
And in a funny way, this felt very – I mean, being back among the seasons and in a grittier sort of urban atmosphere felt very familiar to me.
And also, I think I just – I really was –
For some reason I was absolutely determined to live in New York.
I now question that decision.
I love New York.
But there's something about it that is just thrilling.
I think all of the sense of wanting to find...
someplace rich and fascinating and going as far as I could away from my home to try to find that into all kinds of wacky places in the world.
I think New York is the place that's, you know, in America that comes closest to satisfying that desire for exoticism.
And it's more than that.
You can absolutely make it there on your wits and on your skills.
And that's all they care about, too.
I mean, every day I meet people who are smart and interesting.
That is not the case in most cities.
No, that's true.
Boston comes close, though.
Boston is great.
Actually, my husband's family is from Boston.
Is that right?
Yeah, and I love going there to visit them.
so yeah boston is terrific and you know and i love philadelphia too i mean i i think that um you know any of those places would be great for me but i i it's funny my mother um you know who still lives in san francisco was visiting she visits all the time and we got in a cab and um and she turned to me i had an exchange with the driver and she said that's it you are really a new yorker and what i had said to the driver was
I'd gotten in.
We were not in a hurry.
We were going to a museum.
The guy barely spoke English, and I leaned forward and sort of poked my head into the front of the cab and said, so, what's your game plan?
He said, that's it.
You're never coming back.
I can tell.
I am going to just accept it.
You belong here in New York.
That's a cute story.
And it's true.
I am so New York by temperament.
I'm impatient.
I get frustrated in a second, but I'm also very, I'm sort of emotional and kind of very generous in certain moments, too, in that very sort of, you know, one minute the New Yorker wants to punch you and the next minute they're hugging you.
I'm very much like that.
That's cute.
Tell me quickly, and we've got plenty of stuff here, by the way.
Tell me quickly about your job working with the Countess of... The Countess of Romanones.
Romanones.
Your paths haven't crossed because she has published many books.
Right.
She's American-born, actually, from Pearl River, New York.
So she's the Countess of Romanones.
I love that.
I know.
Well, she was a spy during World War II in Spain and ended up meeting and marrying a count, hence her title.
And she then lived there, spent basically most of her adult life there.
She moved back here maybe, I don't know, I guess about eight or nine years ago and began writing these books about her spying experiences, the first of which was The Spy War Red, which was actually a huge bestseller.
It's a very familiar title, yeah.
And so she needed a secretary, and I was broke and frantically temping and doing everything I could think of to try and make ends meet.
And so we just sort of fell into each other's lives.
And I worked for her every day from 1 to 6 in the afternoon.
It was quite an experience.
I would say.
I mean, she is a colorful, vibrant, visceral, difficult woman, and she made life very hard for me.
I think she would be the first to admit that.
On the other hand, it was fascinating because there were so many things going on there that I had never really seen firsthand, one of which is this sort of dying European aristocracy that still,
takes itself very seriously.
She would get invitations from Russian nobility.
These people are out there.
They are giving parties.
They are buying dresses.
Oh, listen.
I just did an interview with Bob Massey a couple weeks ago, you know.
And, I mean, this whole thing about burying the czar's bones is because they're all fighting about they all want to go back and be the next czar.
Exactly.
I mean, that was fascinating.
And she was, you know, in New York, part of this very, you know, upper crust society.
society that included people like Malcolm Forbes you know I mean these people were at her house all the time she would have dinner parties and I mean one that I'll never forget her close friends were the Reagans who were of course in office at that time and
She had a dinner party for Nancy Reagan, and the guest list was just beyond belief.
I mean, it included Malcolm Forbes, Mike Wallace.
And you were there?
I wasn't at the dinner, but I was, of course, organizing every detail of it.
But we had a slight hitch that morning, which was that the Countess's apartment building caught on fire.
Jesus.
And all the power went out.
And it literally was, I mean, it was really burned.
I mean, the elevators didn't work.
There were soot all over the walls.
It was a disaster.
But she had such a will of iron, she would not relinquish this dinner party.
So thus began this insane day of lying to the Secret Service and saying, oh, everything is fine.
No kidding.
And it went off?
It happened.
She had the party.
She had everyone bring candelabra.
It was great.
You know, it was Donald Trump was there.
I mean, it was just, you know, these sorts of experiences for someone, especially someone not from New York.
I mean, when would you ever have these?
Yeah, that's great.
So it was very thrilling in its way.
And I worked for her for two years, and she has been so supportive of my career ever since, which I really appreciate.
Yeah.
And so what are you working on now, another novel?
I am working on another novel, extremely different from the first.
And I'm also, you know, I did this cover story for the New York Times Magazine that came out a couple of weeks ago, and that was really, it was the first real attempt I had made at journalism.
I should see this now.
It's actually about, it's about models, interestingly.
A couple weeks ago?
Yeah, it's Sunday, February 4th.
I should still have that.
Okay.
And so that was just an amazing experience.
I mean, I loved doing the research.
It's a very sort of literary approach for the magazine.
Did they approach you for that, or did you pitch it?
Yeah, they did, although they knew that they wanted something on this industry, and they knew that I had written about it before, but they really did want sort of a fiction writer's perspective.
So I really lucked out in being kind of uniquely qualified for that.
Who did you deal with, just out of curiosity?
Jerry Marzarotti.
Oh, okay.
I think he's sort of number three there.
I'm just thinking of some stories for them, too.
The exposure of that thing is what's amazing.
I did an essay for the New York Times Book Review.
which was page one, and it was the longest essay.
Remember they used to run those book essays?
Oh, yeah.
When Becky Sinclair was still there?
Yeah.
And I did one that ran five pages, and it absolutely extended.
I had to put the response to that thing.
I mean, meant that I had to work two more years in the book.
I mean, stuff started coming my way that had never, that had been denied, you know.
I know.
You all of a sudden had entree to levels and to people.
I did this woman, Louise Taper, who just got written up with him in the New York Times two weeks ago.
She has this incomparable Lincoln collection, which is in Chicago now.
Right.
And I did that.
I've been the only interview with her.
I mean, up until that time, she wouldn't talk to anybody, you know.
That's so amazing.
I know it's a stamp of legitimacy that just, I mean, in a way it's ridiculous, but at least it's a validation of who you are, especially if you're not known, if you're very regional and you're not known.
Exactly.
Or in my case, you know, I mean, nonfiction writers do not take fiction writers very seriously.
So for me, it was an amazing chance to cross over and I don't want to lose that.
I want to do more pieces for them and maybe for others.
That's why I keep my column every week.
I don't make any money on it to speak of, but it does allow me to write every week for several million people.
Yeah, that's not something you want to discount.
Having caught that bug, it's very hard for me to imagine.
It does give you a discipline, too.
It gives you a discipline, and it gives you... I think, you know, now that I can't... I'm never going to be able to afford the kind of traveling that I've done in the past, because I don't want to travel necessarily with a backpack at 33 years old.
No.
This is a way to travel without really...
Well, almost with portfolio, you know what I mean?
Exactly.
And I think you get that fabulous experience of being able to walk into someone else's life and house and see what they do.
It's great.
I've told my wife this next book, we're really going to travel tremendously.
Oh, I think that'll be great.
And I mean, it's going to be like I'm going to do a tour through history.
You know, we're going to start in Ephesus and Turkey and Bergamo.
That's where I went on my honeymoon.
Isn't it magnificent?
Well, you know, there's a restored library there from it's over 2000 years old.
at ephesus yeah yeah i know i went in it yeah and then and then well that's where i'm starting my next book and that's going to be continuum one the chapter continuum one which will just take you through these important stops through history you know the the uh the monastery at saint gaul in switzerland where all the great manuscripts of the middle ages were copied and and on the island of patmos uh
We're at the Monastery of St.
John for 900 years, uninterrupted.
You know, they have this monastic library.
So that kind of stuff.
Oh, I think that sounds amazing.
It's really great.
We've never been to St.
Petersburg, so we've got to go see Catherine the Great's books.
Absolutely.
Oh, this is going to take you to some great places.
Well, it's going to cost a lot of dough.
Get a good advance.
You've earned it.
We're working on it now as we speak.
And for the first time in my life, I'm going to shut off the tape recorder now because we've got plenty of stuff.